Assets/Models/ml-agent.md, before:

# Training an Agent

## Setup

Make sure that you have installed conda and created the mlagents environment:

https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/develop/docs/Installation.md

Pull the ML-Model branch and create a new branch for training to not interfere with others training data/model.

```
git pull test/ML-Model/stage-1
git checkout -b test/ML-Model/<--new name-->
```

Click on the slider gameobject in the ml_training_scene. The object's components should look like this:

<picture>
![alt text](https://github.com/chesterrc/ML-Breakout/tree/test/ML-Model/stage-1/Assets/Models/Images/slider_agent.png)
</picture>

## Running the model

To run the model, start the conda environment and navigate to the root directory of the project.

```
conda activate mlagents
cd path/to/<ml-breakout root folder>
```

Train the model with:

```
mlagents-learn path/to/config.yaml --run-id=<NameOfRun>
```

The model will run until the max_steps specified in the config. This was set to 5000.

## Config Overview
The config file is located at:
```
<ml-break root folder>/config/slider_config.yaml
```

```
behaviors: <--umbrella term to find mlagent behavior config with mlagents-learn-->
    SliderBehavior: <--behavior name-->
```

### General Parameters

| Settings            | Definition    |
|--------------------:|---------------|
|     trainer_type    |  Type of trainer. PPO, SAC or POCA. These are different types of reinforcement learning algorithms. This project is currently using PPO because the environment is simple ( doesn't contain multi-agent structure ).             |
|     max_steps    |  Number of iterations/steps/episodees to collect observations an do actions before ending the trining process.             |
|     time_horizon    |  Data of experiences collected before adding it to the experience buffer. The number should be large enough to capture all important behaviors within a sequence of an agent's actions. Typically between 32 - 2048             |
|     summary_freq    |  Data of experiences collected before generating and displaying training statistics.        |

### Hyperparameters

| Hyperparameters            | Definition    |
|---------------------------:|---------------|
|     batch_size             | Number of experiences i.e. how many samples the model processes before updating weights and biases. This number must be below the buffer_size. Continuous actions should be in the 1000s. Discrete actions are in the 10s. This project is currently using Continuous actions                |
|     buffer_size            | Number of agent observations, actions, adn rewards collected before updating the model              |
|     learning_rate          | Used to update exploration/curiosity of the model. Decrease if training is unstable.              |
|     beta                   | Controls randomness of an agent's actions during training.              |
|     epsilon                | Influeces how fast the agent predicts its next/best move.              |
|     lambd                  | How confident an agent is when using its current value estimate to predict the next move.              |
|     num_epoch              | Number of passes through the experiences (buffer_size). Decreasing this will ensure more stable updates at the cost of slower learning.               |
|     learning_rate_schedule | constant or linear. Constant means a fixed learning rate. Linear schedule means a decay overtime. The model is currently using linear because the idea should be that the agent's model converges to a solution overtime.              |
|     beta_schedule          | constant or linear. Constant means a steady randomness. Linear means a randomness that decays overtime due to the convergence of the agent's model to a solution. The model currently using constant.                |
|     epsilon_schedule       | constant or linear. Constant means a steady prediction rate. Linear means a prediction rate that decays overtime due to the convergence of the agent's model to a solution. The model currently using constant.                      |

### Network Settings

Configuration for the neural network being generated.

| Network Settings            | Definition    |
|----------------------------:|---------------|
| normalize            | Normalizes vector observations. Useful for complex continuous problems ( lots of different vectors from different objects that needs to be observed). Harmful for simpler discrete control problems. This model currently set this to true.    |
| hidden_units            | Number of units (nodes) within the hidden layers of the neural network. Typically in the range of 32 - 512. The model currently set this to 128   |
| num_layers            | Number of hidden layers after the observation input. Fewer layers are faster and more efficient to train. Large layers are used for complex problems. Typically in the range of 1 - 3. The model currently set this to 2.    |

### Reward Signals

Extrinsic signals are environment based rewards. Intrinsic signals (GAIL or curiosity) gives rewards based on exploration.

| Reward Signals            | Definition    |
|----------------------------:|---------------|
| Extrinsic --> gamma            | Discount factor for future rewards coming from the environment. How far in the future should the agent be thinking about possible rewards. This valus should be less than 1. |
| strength        | Factor by which to multiply the reward given by the environment. Typically set to 1 but depends on teh reward signal. The model currently has a range between 0.0 - 1.0 |

# More Information

https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/develop/docs/Training-Configuration-File.md

Commit message:

added to the ml-agent documentation

Assets/Models/ml-agent.md, after:

# Training an Agent

## Setup

Make sure that you have installed conda and created the mlagents environment:

https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/develop/docs/Installation.md

Pull the ML-Model branch and create a new branch for training to not interfere with others training data/model.

```
git pull test/ML-Model/stage-1
git checkout -b test/ML-Model/<--new name-->
```

Click on the slider gameobject in the ml_training_scene. The object's components should look like this:

![alt text](Images/slider_agent.png)

The Behavior Parameters component should show up in the inspector when the slider_agent script is placed inside a gameobject. If you do not have a Decision Requester, add the component by clicking "Add Component" and searching for Decision Requester.

Within the Behavior Parameters the behavior name should be the same within the config file. This project only utilizes 1 continuous agent, that is because we are only moving along one axis (x axis). The space size relates to the number of observations we have. Within the script we have 2 observations that the slider is observing, however the vectors require a space size of 6.

## Running the model

To run the model, start the conda environment and navigate to the root directory of the project.

```
conda activate mlagents
cd path/to/<ml-breakout root folder>
```

Train the model with:

```
mlagents-learn path/to/config.yaml --run-id=<NameOfRun>
```

Press play within the Unity Editor. The model will run until the max_steps specified in the config. This was set to 5000.

## Embedding a ML Agent into the scene
Copy the model folder from the results folder into the Assets/Models folder

```
mv <project-root-folder/results/<model-folder> <project-root-folder>/Assets/Models
```

Drag/Add the .onnx file into the "Model" parameter under Behavior Parameters.

![alt text](Images/slider_agent.png)

## Config Overview
The config file is located at:
```
<ml-break root folder>/config/slider_config.yaml
```

```
behaviors: <--umbrella term to find mlagent behavior config with mlagents-learn-->
    SliderBehavior: <--behavior name-->
```

### General Parameters

| Settings            | Definition    |
|--------------------:|---------------|
|     trainer_type    |  Type of trainer. PPO, SAC or POCA. These are different types of reinforcement learning algorithms. This project is currently using PPO because the environment is simple ( doesn't contain multi-agent structure ).             |
|     max_steps    |  Number of iterations/steps/episodees to collect observations an do actions before ending the trining process.             |
|     time_horizon    |  Data of experiences collected before adding it to the experience buffer. The number should be large enough to capture all important behaviors within a sequence of an agent's actions. Typically between 32 - 2048             |
|     summary_freq    |  Data of experiences collected before generating and displaying training statistics.        |

### Hyperparameters

| Hyperparameters            | Definition    |
|---------------------------:|---------------|
|     batch_size             | Number of experiences i.e. how many samples the model processes before updating weights and biases. This number must be below the buffer_size. Continuous actions should be in the 1000s. Discrete actions are in the 10s. This project is currently using Continuous actions                |
|     buffer_size            | Number of agent observations, actions, adn rewards collected before updating the model              |
|     learning_rate          | Used to update exploration/curiosity of the model. Decrease if training is unstable.              |
|     beta                   | Controls randomness of an agent's actions during training.              |
|     epsilon                | Influeces how fast the agent predicts its next/best move.              |
|     lambd                  | How confident an agent is when using its current value estimate to predict the next move.              |
|     num_epoch              | Number of passes through the experiences (buffer_size). Decreasing this will ensure more stable updates at the cost of slower learning.               |
|     learning_rate_schedule | constant or linear. Constant means a fixed learning rate. Linear schedule means a decay overtime. The model is currently using linear because the idea should be that the agent's model converges to a solution overtime.              |
|     beta_schedule          | constant or linear. Constant means a steady randomness. Linear means a randomness that decays overtime due to the convergence of the agent's model to a solution. The model currently using constant.                |
|     epsilon_schedule       | constant or linear. Constant means a steady prediction rate. Linear means a prediction rate that decays overtime due to the convergence of the agent's model to a solution. The model currently using constant.                      |

### Network Settings

Configuration for the neural network being generated.

| Network Settings            | Definition    |
|----------------------------:|---------------|
| normalize            | Normalizes vector observations. Useful for complex continuous problems ( lots of different vectors from different objects that needs to be observed). Harmful for simpler discrete control problems. This model currently set this to true.    |
| hidden_units            | Number of units (nodes) within the hidden layers of the neural network. Typically in the range of 32 - 512. The model currently set this to 128   |
| num_layers            | Number of hidden layers after the observation input. Fewer layers are faster and more efficient to train. Large layers are used for complex problems. Typically in the range of 1 - 3. The model currently set this to 2.    |

### Reward Signals

Extrinsic signals are environment based rewards. Intrinsic signals (GAIL or curiosity) gives rewards based on exploration.

| Reward Signals            | Definition    |
|----------------------------:|---------------|
| Extrinsic --> gamma            | Discount factor for future rewards coming from the environment. How far in the future should the agent be thinking about possible rewards. This valus should be less than 1. |
| strength        | Factor by which to multiply the reward given by the environment. Typically set to 1 but depends on teh reward signal. The model currently has a range between 0.0 - 1.0 |

# More Information

https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/develop/docs/Training-Configuration-File.md
